A Band Apart Films was a production company founded by Quentin Tarantino, Michael Bodnarchek, and Lawrence Bender that was active from 1991 to 2006. Its name is a play on the French New Wave classic film, Bande à part ("Band of Outsiders") by filmmaker Jean-Luc Godard, whose work was highly influential on the work of the company's members. ==History== Tarantino formed A Band Apart in 1991, naming it after his favorite Godard film, Bande à part. The company's logo was a stylized image of the robbers from Reservoir Dogs, Tarantino's debut film. Subsequently, several legal entities within the company were named after the film's characters. Mr. Pink LLC was for music video production budgets, and Mr. Brown LLC was for commercials. In addition to Tarantino, members of the company included Robert Rodriguez, John Woo, Tim Burton, Steve Buscemi, Darren Aronofsky, John Landis, Joseph McGinty Nichol, Nigel Dick, Varl Hobe, Steve Carr, Cameron Casey, Marcel Langenegger, Wayne Isham, Terry Windell, Lisa Prisco, Phil Harder-Rick Fuller, Coodie & Chike, Osbert Parker, Luc Besson, Porker LeVance, Adam Christian Clark, André 3000, Christopher Morrison and Michael Palmieri, Andy Mornahan, Chash Brower, Steve Lowe, Loren Hill, Darren Grant, Charles Whittenmier, Geoff McGann, Olivier Venturini, The 405 Guys, and Craig Tanamoto. The company catapulted to fame with the 1994 release of Tarantino's Pulp Fiction, which was considered by some critics to be the most influential American film of the decade."The All-Time Greatest 100 Films". Time 2005. In the summer of 1995, the company added a division for commercials and later, for music video production, adding a third co-owner Michael Bodnarchek. Kristin Cruz (aka Kris Foster) and Heidi Santelli launched A Band Apart Music Videos as directors' rep and executive producer, respectively."City Pages Article", City Pages 2007 ==Company closure== Tarantino and Bender are no longer working together and Tarantino is the sole owner of A Band Apart Films. David Heyman (Harry Potter, Gravity) produced Tarantino's ninth film Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. The company is listed as studio for Tarantino's 2009 Inglourious Basterds and 2012 Django Unchained, and credited in the 2007 Grindhouse movies. ==Filmography== === Films produced and co-produced === Year Title Directed by Distribution Co-production Notes 1992 Reservoir Dogs Quentin Tarantino Miramax Films Live America Inc. Dog Eat Dog Productions 1993 True Romance Tony Scott Warner Bros. Morgan Creek Productions Davis Films 1994 Pulp Fiction Quentin Tarantino Miramax Films Jersey Films 1995 The Whiskey Heir JoAnn Fregalette Jansen A Band Apart Short film White Man's Burden Desmond Nakano Savoy Pictures UGC Rysher Entertainment Four Rooms Allison Anders Alexandre Rockwell Robert Rodriguez Quentin Tarantino Miramax Films 1996 Curdled Rob Braddock Rolling Thunder Pictures Miramax Films Tinderbox Films From Dusk till Dawn Robert Rodriguez Miramax Films Dimension Films Los Hooligans Productions 1997 Jackie Brown Quentin Tarantino Mighty Mighty Afrodite Productions Lawrence Bender Productions Good Will Hunting Gus Van Sant Be Gentleman Limited Partnership As Lawrence Bender Productions 1998 Metallica: Cunning Stunts Wayne Ishun Adam Dubin Elektra Entertainment Celluloid Construction Company Woof! Woof! Concert video 1999 From Dusk Till Dawn 2: Texas Blood Money Scott Spiegel Buena Vista Home Entertainment Dimension Home Video Los Hooligans Direct-to-video 2000 From Dusk Till Dawn 3: The Hangman's Daughter P. J. Pesce Amuse Pictures Buena Vista Home Video New Films International 2003 Kill Bill: Volume 1 Quentin Tarantino Miramax Films rowspan="2" 2004 Kill Bill: Volume 2 Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights Guy Ferland Lionsgate Films Miramax Films Artisan Entertainment Havana Nights LLC Lawrence Bender Productions Miramax Films 2007 Death Proof Quentin Tarantino Dimension Films Troublemaker Studios Soundtrack only 2009 Inglourious Basterds The Weinstein Company Universal Pictures Studio Babelsberg Visiona Romantica 2012 Django Unchained The Weinstein Company Columbia Pictures Columbia Pictures ===Music videos produced (partial list)=== Year Title Artist(s) 1997 "Promisse Ain't Enough" Hall & Oates 1998 "Pretty Fly (for a White Guy)" The Offspring "Fuel" Metallica "Believe" Cher "The City Is Mine" Jay-Z ft. Blackstreet "Miami" Will Smith "Clock Strikes" Timbaland & Magoo ft. Mad Skillz "Hard Knock Life" Jay-Z 1999 "Everything You Want" Vertical Horizon "The Hardest Thing" 98 Degrees 2000 "Bye Bye Bye" NSYNC "Hemorrhage (In My Hands)" Fuel "(Rock) Superstar" Cypress Hill "U Got It" Cleopatra "Breathless" The Corrs "Oops!... I Did It Again" Britney Spears 2001 "Cry" Mandy Moore "Crush" "Overprotected" Britney Spears 2003 "Some Girls" JC Chasez "Falls on Me" Fuel 2005 "An Honest Mistake" The Bravery "Resolve" Foo Fighters "Juicebox (song)" The Strokes == References == ==External links== *An Archive of the Company's Website circa 2001 *City Pages feature on Michael Bodnarchek, co-founder of A Band Apart Category:1991 establishments in California Category:2006 disestablishments in California Category:American companies established in 1991 Category:American companies disestablished in 2006 Category:Companies based in Los Angeles Category:Defunct companies based in Greater Los Angeles Category:Defunct film and television production companies of the United States Category:Entertainment companies based in California Category:Film production companies of the United States Category:Mass media companies established in 1991 Category:Mass media companies disestablished in 2006 Category:Television production companies of the United States Category:Quentin Tarantino