A Beautiful Place to Die is the debut novel of award-winning filmmaker Malla Nunn.JAY STRAFFORD, "Globe-trotting with the Grim Reaper ," Richmond-Times Dispatch (25 January 2009). It was a recipient of the 2009 Davitt Award. ==Characters in A Beautiful Place to Die== Det. Emmanuel Cooper is the main character in the book. Chris Nashawaty describes the character as "an English WWII veteran who emigrated to Johannesburg in the early '50s, a toxic time when the country's racial divisions couldn't have been more black-and-white. He's a stranger in a strange land, not only because he doesn't use skin color to determine guilt or innocence but also because he barely understands just how deep these fault lines go."Chris Nashawaty, "Books: Malla Nunn's thriller digs up a murder in '50s South Africa," Entertainment Weekly 1029 (9 January 2009), 65. ==Major themes== Kirkus Reviews explains that race "is a major issue in the narrative; Afrikaners and people of color eye each other warily owing to the recent advent of laws that prescribe how whites and blacks can and can't interact....The author sets his story in Jacob's Rest, a small village with rigid racial distinctions.""Review of A Beautiful Place to Die," Kirkus Reviews 76.20 (10/15/2008): 1089–1090. ==Literary significance and reception== Publishers Weekly compares the book to Charles Todd's Inspector Rutledge series and calls it "a welcome addition to crime fiction set in South Africa.""Review of A Beautiful Place to Die," Publishers Weekly 255.43 (10/27/2008): 32. USA Today declares the book "a great beginning to a series that mixes crime-solving with South African history."Carol Memmott, "International mysteries," USA Today (01/29/2009): Life 05d. Graeme Blundell praises the book as "lovely" and commends Nunn for setting "her characters brilliantly within a complex psychological portrayal of a particular time and place."Graeme Blundell, "Sod goodwill, give me crime ," The Australian (6 December 2008). Jay strafford writes that the book "will long echo in your mind" and that "Nunn brings this entirely plausible work to a close and leaves the reader eager for the next case facing her winning, troubled protagonist." Nashawaty writes that "as a character, Cooper's no Sam Spade or Philip Marlowe. He feels sketchy, half-drawn--not quite alive yet. Next time out, we'll need...more cluses about what makes this new sleuth tick." Nevertheless, Nasawaty still gives the book a B overall. Sarah Weinman writes, "Nunn teases out a complex tale of sexual depravity and family members prepared to protect even the worst of secrets in beautifully layered prose, but what makes A Beautiful Place to Die a debut to savor is the interplay between the cusp of social change and how then-socially accepted values seem monstrous to the modern reader."Sarah Weinman, "Books in Brief," The Baltimore Sun (4 January 2009). ==Publication history== * 2008, Australia, Pan Macmillan, , Pap date 1 September 2008 * 2009, United States of America, Atria , Pub date 6 January 2009 ==Footnotes== Category:2008 Australian novels Category:Apartheid novels Category:Australian mystery novels Category:Novels set in South Africa Category:Fiction set in the 1950s Category:2008 debut novels Category:Macmillan Publishers books