A Bug's Life is a video game based on the Disney/Pixar 1998 film of the same name. It was released for various systems in 1998 and in 1999. The game's storyline is similar to that of the film, with a few changes. After completing levels the player can unlock clips from the film. The PlayStation version was released on the PlayStation Store for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable on July 27, 2010. ==Gameplay== A Bug's Life is a platform game in which the player controls Flik throughout settings and a storyline based on the namesake film. The game is divided into five distinct "lands" consisting of three levels each.A Bug's Life (Nintendo 64) instruction booklet, pp. 23–24 To complete a level, the player must either find an exit, complete a goal or defeat a boss character.A Bug's Life (Nintendo 64) instruction booklet, p. 19 Flik's primary form of offense against enemy characters is throwing berries. By default, Flik throws red-colored berries, which are the weakest form of berry and cannot harm certain enemies. Stronger berries can either be found within a level or received from planting purple-colored seeds. Collecting purple seed tokens increases the range of berries a seed can produce. Aside from increased power, some berries travel faster and can home in on enemies. The strongest form of berry is gold-colored and is capable of permanently eliminating enemies and preventing them from respawning.A Bug's Life (Nintendo 64) instruction booklet, pp. 14–15 Several seeds are scattered throughout the levels. Flik can hoist most seeds over his head and carry them to other areas, although some seeds are embedded into the ground and cannot be moved. Jumping on top of a seed creates a plant that aids Flik in some fashion. By default, all seeds are colored brown and bear plants that help Flik traverse high terrain. The color of the seeds and the type of plant they bear can be changed if Flik collects differently-colored seed tokens within a level. Some plants can restore Flik's health, provide a shield from enemy attacks, propel him through the air, or damage enemies by firing berries. Plants can be uprooted and discarded, which results in a fresh seed appearing in its place.A Bug's Life (Nintendo 64) instruction booklet, pp. 11–13 Flik's health is displayed as a leaf on the top-right corner of the screen, and the player is given six lives at the beginning of the game. When Flik's health is full, the leaf appears whole, but if he is harmed by an enemy or hazard, a bite is taken out of the leaf. Health can be restored by collecting leaves marked with a red cross, which are released from defeated enemies and blue seed plants. Collecting 50 pieces of grain within a level will restore Flik's health completely. If the leaf is completely eaten away, a life is lost. An extra life can be received if the letters F, L, I and K are collected within a level. If all of Flik's lives are lost, it is game over.A Bug's Life (Nintendo 64) instruction booklet, p. 18 Floating telescopes grant a rotating view of either hidden items in a level or the level's exit and the surrounding details. Flik's grain harvester is present in certain levels, and can be used to attract distant grain and permanently kill most enemies while it is worn. ==Development== The game was announced in October 1997. ==Reception== The console versions of A Bug's Life was met with "mixed or average" reviews while the Game Boy Color version was met with "generally unfavorable" reviews. Aggregating review website GameRankings gave the Nintendo 64 version 54.40%, the PlayStation version 55.73% and the Game Boy Color version 36.63%. GameSpot gave the PlayStation version 2.7 out of 10, concluding that it was "obvious that Disney was more interested in producing a $40 advertisement for its movie than in developing a playable game". However, the same site later gave the Nintendo 64 version a score of 6.1 out of 10, stating that "children looking to relive the fun of the movie should be pleased with the simplicity of the game". IGN gave the Nintendo 64 version 6.8 out of 10, praising the presentation and sound by stating that it had an "upbeat, cheery look and feel very much like the movie of the same name" with "cheery, happy tunes and strong sound effects" but criticised the gameplay by saying the controls were sluggish with "stuttering framerate" and "tired gameplay mechanics" while they gave the PlayStation version 4 out of 10, criticizing the gameplay as slow and awkward but praising the presentation as cinematic. The same site later gave the Game Boy Color version a score of three out of ten, calling it "short and repetitive" and "below average". Daniel Erickson reviewed the Nintendo 64 version of the game for Next Generation, rating it one star out of five, and stated that "any way you slice it, this stinks". === Awards === The game won the Computer Children's Entertainment Title of the Year award at the 2nd Annual Interactive Achievement Awards, competing against six other nominees. ==References== ==External links== * * A Bug’s Life (PlayStation) can be played for free in the browser on the Internet Archive Category:1998 video games Category:3D platform games Video game Category:Activision games Category:D.I.C.E. Award winners Category:Disney video games Category:Game Boy Color games Category:Nintendo 64 games Category:PlayStation (console) games Category:Sony Interactive Entertainment games Category:Tiertex Design Studios games Category:THQ games Category:Traveller's Tales games Category:Video games about insects Category:Video games based on animated films Category:Video games based on works by John Lasseter Category:Windows games Category:Single- player video games Category:Video games scored by Andy Blythe and Marten Joustra Category:Video games developed in the United Kingdom Category:Video games about ants