A Better Life is a 2011 American drama film directed by Chris Weitz and written by Eric Eason, based on a story by Roger L. Simon. It stars Demián Bichir as an undocumented immigrant gardener in Los Angeles who, along with his teenage son, attempts to find his stolen truck. The film received a limited release in the United States on June 24, 2011, by Summit Entertainment. For his performance, Bichir was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor. ==Plot== Carlos Galindo is a gardener in Los Angeles working with his partner, Blasco. His son, Luis, studies at high school. Luis spends time with his girlfriend, who is affiliated with gang members. They pressure him to join them. On one occasion, Luis is suspended for assaulting a student. Carlos' sister, Anita, lends $12,000 from the family's emergency fund for Carlos to buy Blasco's truck. It is later stolen by Santiago, whom Carlos hired. The next day, Carlos and Luis head to a South Central apartment complex, which is used as lodgings for undocumented immigrant workers. One man tells the two that Santiago works at a nightclub. Carlos and Luis head to the restaurant, which would open during the night. At the rodeo, Carlos mentions to Luis about his mother abandoning them. Luis mentions that he dislikes Mexican music and culture. After finding Santiago at the nightclub, Carlos and Luis interrogate him in the parking lot. They learn that he has sold the truck to the garage and sent the money to his family in El Salvador. When Santiago pleads not guilty, Carlos defends him and Luis angrily leaves them. The next day, Carlos convinces Luis to go with him to the place where the truck is sold. After retrieving the truck, they are stopped by the police. Carlos is arrested and incarcerated as an undocumented American immigrant. Luis visits the detention center and reconciles with his father. After promising Luis that he will return, Carlos boards the deportation bus. Luis spends time with the family, while Carlos and other migrants travel through the desert. ==Cast== * Demián Bichir as Carlos Galindo * José Julián as Luis Galindo * Dolores Heredia as Anita * Carlos Linares as Santiago * Eddie "Piolín" Sotelo as himself * Joaquín Cosío as Blasco Martinez * Nancy Lenehan as Mrs. Donnely * Gabriel Chavarria as Ramon ==Production== The film was originally titled The Gardener. Uncommon among Hollywood productions, it is set in a Hispanic community and features an almost entirely Hispanic cast. Weitz used the film to explore the culture and geography of Los Angeles. Father Gregory Boyle of Homeboy Industries, run by former gang members, helped Weitz and his crew with finding locations and making their film as authentic as possible. The language of the script was modified to reflect the actual slang used in Los Angeles, even reflecting linguistic differences from the street. ==Release== The film opened in limited release on June 24, 2011. ===Critical reception=== Critical response to the film has been positive. It has garnered "fresh" rating from Rotten Tomatoes, based on reviews, and an average rating of . The critical consensus reads: "Powered by a terrific performance from Demián Bichir, A Better Life is an immigrant story told with simplicity and an ample amount of heart." The critical aggregator Metacritic awarded the film a score of 64 out of 100, based on 30 critics, signifying "generally positive reviews". Manohla Dargis, film critic for The New York Times, called the film "Touching and startling." Peter Travers of Rolling Stone called the film "a haunting movie that gets under your skin." Writing for Entertainment Weekly, Dave Karger called A Better Life an "unfussy, yet quite powerful drama with a terrific central performance by Demián Bichir." Karger called the film an "awards contender" and wrote, "With the right reviews and commercial reception, it could go even further." Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times, wrote "the performances are pitch perfect" and he gave the film three and a half out of four stars. The New Yorker critic Richard Brody wrote: "The story unfolds without hagiography, pity, or trumped-up heroism, as the filmmaker approaches the lives of everyday people with modest compassion and imaginative sympathy. Amy Biancolli, writing in the Houston Chronicle, said "It's straight, true and heartbreaking, a masterstroke of raw emotional minimalism". ===Awards=== Award Category Recipient(s) Result Academy Awards Best Actor Demián Bichir Independent Spirit Awards Best Male Lead Screen Actors Guild Awards Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role Young Artist Awards Best Leading Young Actor in a Feature Film José Julián ==Telenovela version== Telemundo produced a telenovela adaptation, Bajo el mismo cielo, starring Gabriel Porras and María Elisa Camargo. It aired from July 28, 2015 to January 25, 2016. ==References== ==External links== * * Category:2011 films Category:2011 drama films Category:2011 independent films Category:2011 multilingual films Category:2010s American films Category:2010s English- language films Category:2010s Spanish-language films Category:American independent films Category:American multilingual films Category:Films about father–son relationships Category:Films about illegal immigration to the United States Category:Films adapted into television shows Category:Films directed by Chris Weitz Category:Films scored by Alexandre Desplat Category:Films set in Los Angeles Category:Films shot in Los Angeles Category:Hispanic and Latino American drama films Category:Hood films Category:Spanish-language American films Category:Summit Entertainment films Category:Works about gardening