A Brother With Perfect Timing is a 1987 documentary film, directed by Chris Austin, about musician Abdullah Ibrahim and his struggle against apartheid in South Africa.Rawls, John. Southern Africa Political & Economic Monthly, Volume 9. Southern African Political Economy Series (SAPES) Publications Project, 1995, pp. 11–12. == Background == A Brother With Perfect Timing was filmed in 1986 – four years before the release from prison of Nelson Mandela, and while the apartheid regime was still in place. . The documentary includes a live performance by Ibrahim and discussions about two of his compositions, "Anthem for a New Nation" and "Mannenberg". As described by the reviewer for KUVO radio, "Throughout the film Ibrahim plays different roles. At times he is the narrator, telling stories and sharing anecdotes, cultural and musical history lessons, offering metaphors, and even jokes for how he and other musicians developed and grew into being. ... He is seen performing with his septet Ekaya at the Manhattan nightclub Sweet Basil, as well as rehearsing a choral group. Some scenes in South Africa feature actors dramatizing events that Ibrahim recounts." Musicians featured with Ibrahim include Carlos Ward, Ricky Ford, Charles Davis, Essiet Okon Essiet, Don Mumford and Ben Riley. The film was originally broadcast in the BBC Two series Arena on 27 February 1987. ==Reception== The New York Times positively reviewed the film, calling it "a well-rounded view of a musician for whom exile means both pain and inspiration".Pareles, Jon, "Film: Abdullah Ibrahim", The New York Times, 4 September 1987. The film was reviewed in the 2004 book Jazz on Film, in which author Scott Yanow praised the movie's "blend of interviews and music".Yanow, Scott. Jazz on Film. Backbeat Books, 2004, pp. 29–30. Coda magazine also reviewed the documentary, commenting that Ibrahim "comes across as an admirable and dignified religious man".Norris, John, Coda Magazine, Issues 230–235, 1990, pp. 30–31. ==References== Category:1980s English-language films Category:1987 documentary films Category:1987 films Category:Documentary films about apartheid Category:South African documentary films