A Beautiful Mind is a 2001 American biographical drama film directed by Ron Howard. Written by Akiva Goldsman, its screenplay was inspired by Sylvia Nasar's 1998 biography of the mathematician John Nash, a Nobel Laureate in Economics. A Beautiful Mind stars Russell Crowe as Nash, along with Ed Harris, Jennifer Connelly, Paul Bettany, Adam Goldberg, Judd Hirsch, Josh Lucas, Anthony Rapp, and Christopher Plummer in supporting roles. The story begins in Nash's days as a brilliant but asocial mathematics graduate student at Princeton University. After Nash accepts secret work in cryptography, his life takes a turn for the nightmarish. A Beautiful Mind was released theatrically in the United States on December 21, 2001. It went on to gross over $313 million worldwide and won four Academy Awards, for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Supporting Actress for Connelly. It was also nominated for Best Actor, Best Film Editing, Best Makeup, and Best Original Score. ==Plot== In 1947, John Nash arrives at Princeton University as a co-recipient, with Martin Hansen, of the Carnegie Scholarship for Mathematics. He meets fellow math and science graduate students Sol, Ainsley, and Bender, as well as his roommate Charles Herman, a literature student. Determined to publish his own original idea, Nash is inspired when he and his classmates discuss how to approach a group of women at a bar. Hansen quotes Adam Smith advocating "every man for himself", but Nash argues that a cooperative approach would lead to better chances of success in developing a new concept of governing dynamics. Publishing an article on his theory, he earns an appointment at MIT where he chooses Sol and Bender over Hansen to join him. In 1953, Nash is invited to the Pentagon to study encrypted enemy telecommunications, which he deciphers mentally. Bored with his regular duties at MIT, including teaching, he is recruited by the mysterious William Parcher of the United States Department of Defense with a classified assignment: to look for hidden patterns in magazines and newspapers to thwart a Soviet plot. Nash becomes increasingly obsessive in his search for these patterns, delivering his results to a secret mailbox, and comes to believe he is being followed. One of his students, Alicia Larde, asks him to dinner, and they fall in love. On a return visit to Princeton, Nash runs into Charles and his niece, Marcee. With Charles' encouragement, he proposes to Alicia and they marry. Nash fears for his life after surviving a shootout between Parcher and Soviet agents, and learns Alicia is pregnant, but he is forced to continue his assignment. While delivering a guest lecture at Harvard University, Nash tries to flee from people he thinks are Soviet agents, led by a psychiatrist named Dr. Rosen, but is forcibly sedated and committed to a psychiatric facility. Dr. Rosen tells Alicia that Nash has schizophrenia and that Charles, Marcee, and Parcher exist only in his imagination. Alicia backs up the doctor, telling Nash that no "William Parcher" is in the Defense Department and takes out the unopened documents he delivered to the secret mailbox. Nash is given a course of insulin shock therapy and eventually released. Frustrated with the side effects of his antipsychotic medication, he secretly stops taking it and starts seeing Parcher and Charles again. In 1956, Alicia discovers Nash has resumed his "assignment" in a shed near their home. Realizing he has relapsed, Alicia rushes to the house to find Nash had left their infant son in the running bathtub, believing "Charles" was watching the baby. Alicia calls Dr. Rosen, but Nash accidentally knocks her and the baby to the ground, believing he's fighting Parcher. As Alicia flees with the baby, Nash fights with his visions and realizes that all of them have looked the same ever since he first saw them. He stops Alicia's car and tells her he realizes that "Marcee" isn't real because she doesn't age, finally accepting that Parcher and other figures are hallucinations. Against Dr. Rosen's advice, Nash chooses not to restart his medication, believing he can deal with his symptoms himself, and Alicia decides to stay and support him. Nash returns to Princeton, approaching his old rival Hansen, now head of the mathematics department, who allows him to work out of the library and audit classes. Over the next two decades, Nash learns to ignore his hallucinations and, by the late 1970s, is allowed to teach again. In 1994, Nash is awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his revolutionary work on game theory, and is honored by his fellow professors. At the ceremony, he dedicates the prize to his wife. As Nash, Alicia, and their son leave the auditorium in Stockholm, Nash sees Charles, Marcee, and Parcher watching him, but merely glances at them before departing. ==Cast== ==Production== ===Development=== A Beautiful Mind was the second schizophrenia-themed film that Ron Howard had planned to direct. The first, Laws of Madness, would have been based on the true story of schizophrenic Michael Laudor, who overcame difficult odds to successfully graduate from Yale Law School. Howard purchased the rights to Laudor's life story for $1.5 million in 1995 and had Brad Pitt slated to play the lead role. However, after Laudor killed his fiancée in 1998 in the midst of a psychotic episode, plans for the movie were cancelled. After producer Brian Grazer first read an excerpt of Sylvia Nasar's 1998 book A Beautiful Mind in Vanity Fair magazine, he immediately purchased the rights to the film. Grazer later said that many A-list directors were calling with their point of view on the project. He eventually brought the project to Ron Howard, his long time partner."A Beautiful Partnership: Ron Howard and Brian Grazer", from A Beautiful Mind DVD, 2002. Grazer met with a number of screenwriters, mostly consisting of "serious dramatists", but he chose Akiva Goldsman because of his strong passion and desire for the project. Goldsman's creative take on the project was to avoid having viewers understand they are viewing an alternative reality until a specific point in the film. This was done to rob the viewers of their understanding, to mimic how Nash comprehended his experiences. Howard agreed to direct the film based on the first draft. He asked Goldsman to emphasize the love story of Nash and his wife; she was critical to his being able to continue living at home."Development of the Screenplay", from A Beautiful Mind DVD, 2002. Dave Bayer, a professor of mathematics at Barnard College, Columbia University, was consulted on the mathematical equations that appear in the film. For the scene where Nash has to teach a calculus class and gives them a complicated problem to keep them busy, Bayer chose a problem physically unrealistic but mathematically very rich, in keeping with Nash as "someone who really doesn't want to teach the mundane details, who will home in on what's really interesting". Bayer received a cameo role in the film as a professor who lays his pen down for Nash in the pen ceremony near the end of the film. Greg Cannom was chosen to create the makeup effects for A Beautiful Mind, specifically the age progression of the characters. Crowe had previously worked with Cannom on The Insider. Howard had also worked with Cannom on Cocoon. Each character's stages of makeup were broken down by the number of years that would pass between levels. Cannom stressed subtlety between the stages, but worked toward the ultimate stage of "Older Nash". The production team originally decided that the makeup department would age Russell Crowe throughout the film; however, at Crowe's request, the makeup was used to push his look to resemble the facial features of John Nash. Cannom developed a new silicone-type makeup that could simulate skin and be used for overlapping applications; this shortened make-up application time from eight to four hours. Crowe was also fitted with a number of dentures to give him a slight overbite in the film."The Process of Age Progression", from A Beautiful Mind DVD. 2002. Howard and Grazer chose frequent collaborator James Horner to score the film because they knew of his ability to communicate. Howard said, regarding Horner, "it's like having a conversation with a writer or an actor or another director". A running discussion between the director and the composer was the concept of high-level mathematics being less about numbers and solutions, and more akin to a kaleidoscope, in that the ideas evolve and change. After the first screening of the film, Horner told Howard: "I see changes occurring like fast-moving weather systems". He chose it as another theme to connect to Nash's ever-changing character. Horner chose Welsh singer Charlotte Church to sing the soprano vocals after deciding that he needed a balance between a child and adult singing voice. He wanted a "purity, clarity and brightness of an instrument" but also a vibrato to maintain the humanity of the voice."Scoring the Film", from A Beautiful Mind DVD, 2002. The film was shot 90% chronologically. Three separate trips were made to the Princeton University campus. During filming, Howard decided that Nash's delusions should always be introduced first audibly and then visually. This provides a clue for the audience and establishes the delusions from Nash's point of view. The historic John Nash had only auditory delusions. The filmmakers developed a technique to represent Nash's mental epiphanies. Mathematicians described to them such moments as a sense of "the smoke clearing", "flashes of light" and "everything coming together", so the filmmakers used a flash of light appearing over an object or person to signify Nash's creativity at work.A Beautiful Mind DVD commentary featuring Ron Howard, 2002. Two night shots were done at Fairleigh Dickinson University's campus in Florham Park, New Jersey, in the Vanderbilt Mansion ballroom. Portions of the film set at Harvard were filmed at Manhattan College. (Harvard has turned down most requests for on- location filming ever since the filming of Love Story (1970), which caused significant physical damage to trees on campus.) Tom Cruise was considered for the lead role. Howard ultimately cast Russell Crowe. For the role of Alicia Nash, Rachel Weisz was offered the role but turned it down. Charlize Theron and Julia Ormond auditioned for the role. According to Ron Howard, the four finalists for the role of Alicia were Ashley Judd, Claire Forlani, Mary McCormack and Jennifer Connelly, with Connelly winning the role. Before the casting of Connelly, Hilary Swank and Salma Hayek were also candidates for the part. ===Writing=== The narrative of the film differs considerably from the events of Nash's life, as filmmakers made choices for the sense of the story. The film has been criticized for this aspect, but the filmmakers said they never intended a literal representation of his life. One difficulty was the portrayal of his mental illness and trying to find a visual film language for this. As a matter of fact, Nash never had visual hallucinations: Charles Herman (the "roommate"), Marcee Herman and William Parcher (the Defense agent) are a scriptwriter's invention. Sylvia Nasar said that the filmmakers "invented a narrative that, while far from a literal telling, is true to the spirit of Nash's story". Nash spent his years between Princeton and MIT as a consultant for the RAND Corporation in California, but in the film he is portrayed as having worked for the Department of Defense at the Pentagon instead. His handlers, both from faculty and administration, had to introduce him to assistants and strangers. The PBS documentary A Brilliant Madness tried to portray his life more accurately. Few of the characters in the film, besides John and Alicia Nash, correspond directly to actual people.Sylvia Nasar, A Beautiful Mind, Touchstone 1998. The discussion of the Nash equilibrium was criticized as over-simplified. In the film, Nash has schizophrenic hallucinations while he is in graduate school, but in his life he did not have this experience until some years later. No mention is made of Nash's homosexual experiences at RAND, which are noted in the biography, though both Nash and his wife deny this occurred. Nash fathered a son, John David Stier (born June 19, 1953), by Eleanor Agnes Stier (1921–2005), a nurse whom he abandoned when she told him of her pregnancy. The film did not include Alicia's divorce of John in 1963. It was not until after Nash won the Nobel Memorial Prize in 1994 that they renewed their relationship. Beginning in 1970, Alicia allowed him to live with her as a boarder. They remarried in 2001. Nash is shown to join Wheeler Laboratory at MIT, but there is no such lab. Instead, he was appointed as C. L. E. Moore instructor at MIT, and later as a professor. The film furthermore does not touch on the revolutionary work of John Nash in differential geometry and partial differential equations, such as the Nash embedding theorem or his proof of Hilbert's nineteenth problem, work which he did in his time at MIT and for which he was given the Abel Prize in 2015. The so-called pen ceremony tradition at Princeton shown in the film is completely fictitious. The film has Nash saying in 1994: "I take the newer medications", but in fact, he did not take any medication from 1970 onwards, something highlighted in Nasar's biography. Howard later stated that they added the line of dialogue because they worried that the film would be criticized for suggesting that all people with schizophrenia can overcome their illness without medication. In addition, Nash never gave an acceptance speech for his Nobel prize. ==Release and response== A Beautiful Mind received a limited release on December 21, 2001, receiving positive reviews, with Crowe receiving wide acclaim for his performance. It was later released in the United States on January 4, 2002. ===Critical response=== On Rotten Tomatoes, A Beautiful Mind holds an approval rating of 74% based on 213 reviews and an average score of 7.20/10. The website's critical consensus states: "The well- acted A Beautiful Mind is both a moving love story and a revealing look at mental illness." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 72 out of 100 based on 33 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A-" on an A+ to F scale. Roger Ebert of Chicago Sun-Times gave the film four out of four stars. Mike Clark of USA Today gave three-and-a-half out of four stars and also praised Crowe's performance, calling it a welcome follow-up to Howard's previous film, 2001's How the Grinch Stole Christmas. Desson Thomson of The Washington Post found the film to be "one of those formulaically rendered Important Subject movies". The portrayal of mathematics in the film was praised by the mathematics community, including John Nash himself. John Sutherland of The Guardian noted the film's biopic distortions, but said: Some writers such as Shailee Koranne argue that the film presents an unrealistic or inappropriate depiction of the disorder schizophrenia, which the protagonist John Nash suffers from, stating that places too much emphasis on “fixing” the disorder.Shailee Koranne, 'How schizophrenia is misrepresented in TV and film' Writing in the Los Angeles Times, Lisa Navarrette criticized the casting of Jennifer Connelly as Alicia Nash as an example of whitewashing. Alicia Nash was born in El Salvador and had an accent not portrayed in the film. ===Box office=== During the five-day weekend of the limited release, A Beautiful Mind opened at the #12 spot at the box office, peaking at the #2 spot following the wide release. The film went on to gross $170,742,341 in the United States and Canada and $313,542,341 worldwide. ===Awards and nominations=== Award Category Recipient Result Academy Awards Best Picture Brian Grazer and Ron Howard Best Director Ron Howard Best Actor Russell Crowe Best Supporting Actress Jennifer Connelly Best Screenplay – Based on Material Previously Produced or Published Akiva Goldsman Best Film Editing Mike Hill and Daniel P. Hanley Best Makeup Greg Cannom and Colleen Callaghan Best Original Score James Horner Amanda Awards Best Foreign Feature Film Ron Howard American Cinema Editors Awards Best Edited Feature Film – Dramatic Mike Hill and Daniel P. Hanley American Film Institute Awards Movie of the Year Actor of the Year – Male – Movies Russell Crowe Featured Actor of the Year – Female – Movies Jennifer Connelly Screenwriter of the Year Akiva Goldsman Artios Awards Outstanding Achievement in Feature Film Casting – Drama Jane Jenkins and Janet Hirshenson ASCAP Film and Television Music Awards Top Box Office Films James Horner Australian Film Institute Awards Best Foreign Film Brian Grazer and Ron Howard Awards Circuit Community Awards Best Actor in a Leading Role Russell Crowe Best Actress in a Supporting Role Jennifer Connelly Best Adapted Screenplay Akiva Goldsman Best Original Score James Horner Best Cast Ensemble Paul Bettany, Jennifer Connelly, Russell Crowe, Adam Goldberg, Jason Gray-Stanford, Ed Harris, Judd Hirsch, Josh Lucas, Austin Pendleton, Christopher Plummer, and Anthony Rapp British Academy Film Awards Best Film Brian Grazer and Ron Howard Best Direction Ron Howard Best Actor in a Leading Role Russell Crowe Best Actress in a Supporting Role Jennifer Connelly Best Adapted Screenplay Akiva Goldsman Chicago Film Critics Association Awards Best Film Best Director Ron Howard Best Actor Russell Crowe Best Supporting Actress Jennifer Connelly Best Screenplay Akiva Goldsman Best Original Score James Horner Christopher Awards Feature Film Critics' Choice Awards Best Picture Best Director Ron Howard Best Actor Russell Crowe Best Supporting Actress Jennifer Connelly Best Screenplay Akiva Goldsman Czech Lion Awards Best Foreign Film Dallas–Fort Worth Film Critics Association Awards Best Picture Best Director Ron Howard Best Actor Russell Crowe Best Supporting Actress Jennifer Connelly Best Screenplay Akiva Goldsman Directors Guild of America Awards Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Motion Pictures Ron Howard DVD Exclusive Awards Best Audio Commentary – New Release Original Retrospective Documentary – New Release Colleen A. Benn and Marian Mansi Empire Awards Best Actress Jennifer Connelly Golden Eagle Awards Best Foreign Language Film Ron Howard Golden Globe Awards Best Motion Picture – Drama Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama Russell Crowe Best Supporting Actress – Motion Picture Jennifer Connelly Best Director – Motion Picture Ron Howard Best Screenplay – Motion Picture Akiva Goldsman Best Original Score – Motion Picture James Horner Golden Reel Awards Best Sound Editing – Dialogue & ADR, Domestic Feature Film Anthony J. Ciccolini III, Deborah Wallach, Stan Bochner, Louis Cerborino, and Marc Laub Best Sound Editing – Music (Foreign & Domestic) Jim Henrikson Golden Schmoes Awards Best Actor of the Year Russell Crowe Best Supporting Actress of the Year Jennifer Connelly GoldSpirit Awards Best Soundtrack James Horner Best Drama Soundtrack Grammy Awards Best Score Soundtrack Album for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media A Beautiful Mind: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack – James Horner Humanitas Prize Feature Film Category Akiva Goldsman Kansas City Film Critics Circle Awards Best Supporting Actress Jennifer Connelly Las Vegas Film Critics Society Awards Best Supporting Actress London Film Critics Circle Awards British Supporting Actor of the Year Paul Bettany MTV Movie Awards Best Male Performance Russell Crowe Online Film & Television Association Awards Best Picture Brian Grazer and Ron Howard Best Actor Russell Crowe Best Supporting Actress Jennifer Connelly Best Adapted Screenplay Akiva Goldsman Best Original Score James Horner Online Film Critics Society Awards Best Actor Russell Crowe Best Supporting Actress Jennifer Connelly Producers Guild of America Awards Outstanding Producer of Theatrical Motion Pictures Brian Grazer and Ron Howard Phoenix Film Critics Society Awards Best Picture Best Director Ron Howard Best Actor in a Leading Role Russell Crowe Best Actress in a Supporting Role Jennifer Connelly Best Screenplay – Adaptation Akiva Goldsman Best Original Score James Horner Russian Guild of Film Critics Awards Best Foreign Actor Russell Crowe San Diego Film Critics Society Awards Best Actor Satellite Awards Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama Best Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama Ed Harris Best Supporting Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama Jennifer Connelly Best Adapted Screenplay Akiva Goldsman Best Editing Mike Hill and Daniel P. Hanley Best Original Score James Horner Best Original Song "All Love Can Be" Music by James Horner; Lyrics by Will Jennings Screen Actors Guild Awards Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture Paul Bettany, Jennifer Connelly, Russell Crowe, Adam Goldberg, Jason Gray-Stanford, Ed Harris, Judd Hirsch, Josh Lucas, Austin Pendleton, Christopher Plummer, and Anthony Rapp Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role Russell Crowe Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role Jennifer Connelly Southeastern Film Critics Association Awards Best Picture Best Supporting Actress Jennifer Connelly Teen Choice Awards Choice Movie – Drama/Action Adventure Turkish Film Critics Association Awards Best Foreign Film USC Scripter Awards Akiva Goldsman ; Sylvia Nasar Vancouver Film Critics Circle Awards Best Actor Russell Crowe Voices in the Shadow Dubbing Festival Best Male Voice Fabrizio Pucci World Soundtrack Awards Soundtrack Composer of the Year James Horner Writers Guild of America Awards Best Screenplay – Based on Material Previously Produced or Published Akiva Goldsman Yoga Awards Worst Foreign Director Ron Howard * In 2006, it was named No. 93 in AFI's 100 Years... 100 Cheers. In the following year, it was nominated for AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition). ==Home media== A Beautiful Mind was released on VHS and DVD, in wide- and full-screen editions, in North America on June 25, 2002. The DVD set includes audio commentaries, deleted scenes, and documentaries. The film was also released on Blu-ray in North America on January 25, 2011. ==Soundtrack== ==See also== * List of American films of 2001 * List of films about mathematicians * Mental illness in films ==Notes== ==References== ==Further reading== * Akiva Goldsman. A Beautiful Mind: Screenplay and Introduction. New York, New York: Newmarket Press, 2002. . ==External links== * * * * * * * A Beautiful Mind at MSN Movies * A Beautiful Mind at Film Insight Category:2001 biographical drama films Category:2001 drama films Category:2001 films Category:2000s American films Category:American biographical drama films Category:BAFTA winners (films) Category:Best Drama Picture Golden Globe winners Category:Best Picture Academy Award winners Category:Drama films based on actual events Category:2000s English-language films Category:Films about schizophrenia Category:Films based on biographies Category:Films featuring a Best Drama Actor Golden Globe winning performance Category:Films featuring a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award-winning performance Category:Films featuring a Best Supporting Actress Golden Globe- winning performance Category:Films shot in New Jersey Category:Films set in New Jersey Category:Films set in Massachusetts Category:Films set in Virginia Category:Films set in the 1940s Category:Films set in the 1950s Category:Films set in the 1960s Category:Films set in the 1970s Category:Films set in the 1990s Category:Films set in universities and colleges Category:Films whose director won the Best Directing Academy Award Category:Films whose writer won the Best Adapted Screenplay Academy Award Category:Films about the education system in the United States Category:Films about disability in the United States Category:Films about mathematics Category:Films about Nobel laureates Category:Princeton University Category:Biographical films about mathematicians Category:Biographical films about educators Category:Cultural depictions of mathematicians Category:Cultural depictions of economists Category:Cultural depictions of American men Category:Films scored by James Horner Category:Films with screenplays by Akiva Goldsman Category:Films produced by Brian Grazer Category:Films produced by Ron Howard Category:Films directed by Ron Howard Category:Universal Pictures films Category:DreamWorks Pictures films Category:Imagine Entertainment films