A Beuk o' Newcassell Sangs is a pictorial book giving details of local songs, including the lyrics and in many cases, the music, and all beautifully illustrated with the author's own woodcuts. It was published in 1888. It was reprinted in 1965 by Harold Hill, Newcastle upon Tyne. ==Details== A Beuk o' Newcassell Sangs – (full title – A Beuk o' Newcassell Sangs Collected by Joseph Crawhall , Mawson, Swan & Morgan, M.D. CCC.LXXXVIII) is a book containing approximately 35 songs complete with their lyrics, and in some cases, the music. The Geordie folk songs all relate in some way or other to North East England, and many are in Geordie dialect. It was edited by Joseph Crawhall II. == The publication == It is, as the title suggests, a collection of sangs (or in English "songs") from the Newcassel (or "Newcastle") area. == Contents == Are as below :- page title songwriter tune comments Notes Ref A You A, Hinny Burd actually entitled "A.U. Hinny Burd" in this book Amphitrite – (The) Robert Gilchrist Gee-ho! Dobbin, popularly known as "Cappy Aboot the Bush, Willy – is an alternate name given Andrew Carr actually entitled "Andrew Carr or Kerr" in this book Aw Wish yor Muther wad Cum – or Wor Geordy's notions aboot men nursin' bairns Joseph Wilson The Whusslin Thief actually entitled "Aw Wish thy Muther wad cum" in this book Blackett o' Wylam Bobby Shaftoe traditional Bonny Pit Laddie (The) actually entitled "Bonnie pit laddie (The)" in this book Broom Buzzems – (or Buy Broom Busoms) William Purvis (Blind Willie) actually entitled "Buy Broom Buzzems" in this book Canny Newcassel T Thompson Cappy – or The Pitman's Dog Wm Midford Gee-ho! Dobbin, popularly known as "Cappy actually entitled "Cappy’s the Dog" in this book Collier's Rant (The) Cuddle me, Cuddy – or The Peacock followed the Hen Geordy, haud the bairn Joe Wilson actually entitled "Cum, Geordie, haud the Bairn" in this book Fenwick o' Bywell Fiery Clock-fyece (The) Robert Nunn The Coal-hole Floatin' Gunstan – (The) William Armstrong Derry Down actually entitled "Floatin' Grunstane (The)" in this book Holiday Gown (The) John Cunningham Hydrophobie – or The Skipper and the Quaker Robert Emery The Cameronian's Rant – or X. Y. Z. Jenny Hoolet (The) – or Lizzie Mudie's Ghost Armstrong Gee-ho! Dobbin, popularly known as "Cappy usually called "The Jenny Howlet" (Weel May) The Keel Row Traditional Keelman's Reasons for Attending Church – (The) Robert Nunn Jimmy Johnson's Wherry A-N1 Little Pee-dee (The) The Irish Drops o' Brandy My Lord 'Size – or Newcastle in an Uproar John Shield Newcassel in an Uproar My Love is Newly Listed Newcastle Beer John Cunningham Hunting the Hare actually entitled "Newcassel Beer" in this book Peacock followed the hen (The) Wm Midford The Night before Larry was stretch’d – or The Irish drops o' Brandy Sailors are a' at the Bar (The) Sair Fail'd Hinny actually entitled "Sair fyel’d Hinny" in this book Sandgate Lass's Lamentation (The) The Manchester Angel actually entitled "Sandage Lass's Lament" in this book Spottee (a Sunderland song) possibly the late Thomas Clerke actually entitled "Spottie" in this book S-C1 Tyne Exile's Lament (The) Banks o the Dee Up the Raw Use and abuse (The) – or the Pitman and the preacher J P Robson Canny Newcassel Water of Tyne (The) actually entitled "Water o' Tyne" in this book Washing-Day – (The) Thomas Wilson There's nae luck aboot the hoose actually entitled "Weshin'-day (The)" in this book ==Notes== A-N1 – according to George Allan's Tyneside Songs and Readings of 1891, the writer is Robert Nunn S-C1 – according to (Sir) Cuthbert Sharp's Bishoprick Garland of 1834, the writer is Thomas Clerke == See also == *Geordie dialect words *Joseph Crawhall II *Northumbrian Minstrelsy *Allan's Illustrated Edition of Tyneside Songs and Readings *Rhymes of Northern Bards ==References== ==External links== * A Beuk o’ Newcassell Sangs * The Crawhall family * Joseph Crawhall II Society Category:English folk songs Category:Songs related to Newcastle upon Tyne Category:County Durham Category:Northumbrian folklore Category:1888 books Category:Chapbooks