A Bronx Tale is a musical based on the play by the same name with a book by Chazz Palminteri, music by Alan Menken, and lyrics by Glenn Slater. After a ten-year development process, the original one man show was adapted into a new musical and premiered at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, New Jersey on February 4, 2016, before opening on Broadway December 1 later that year. The original Broadway production was co-directed by Robert De Niro, who had directed the original film, and Jerry Zaks, who had directed the one man show on Broadway in 2007. The show also features choreography by Sergio Trujillo. Tommy Mottola serves as the production's leading producer. ==Production history== The musical began previews on Broadway on November 3, 2016, before officially opening on December 1, 2016, at the Longacre Theatre.Hetrick, Adam. " A Bronx Tale Musical Sets Sights on Broadway" Playbill, May 18, 2016Gans, Andrew, Hetrick, Adam. "'A Bronx Tale' Musical Will Play Broadway's Longacre" Playbill, June 13, 2016 On August 31, Christiani Pitts joined the cast after originally serving as understudy for Jane, while Adam Kaplan joined the cast as Calogero on November 9, 2017. They succeeded Bobby Conte Thornton and Ariana DeBose. Other cast members included "Tony Award nominee Nick Cordero as Sonny, Richard H. Blake as Lorenzo, Lucia Giannetta as Rosina, and Bradley Gibson as Tyrone." The production includes sets by Beowulf Boritt, costumes by William Ivey Long, lighting by Howell Binkley, and sound by Gareth Owen. The cast features Bobby Conte Thornton as Calogero, Nick Cordero as Sonny, Hudson Loverro as Young Calogero with Athan Sporek as his alternate, Richard H. Blake as Lorenzo, Ariana DeBose as Jane, and Lucia Giannetta as Rosina.Gans, Andrew; Hetrick, Adam. "Nick Cordero Will Star in Broadway’s 'A Bronx Tale' Musical" Playbill, August 31, 2016 On May 3, 2018, it was announced that Chazz Palminteri will be joining the cast as Sonny for a limited time beginning May 24. On June 27, 2018, producers announced the show would close on August 5, 2018, after playing 700 regular performances and 29 previews. On January 30, 2018, producers announced that the show would launch a North American national tour that autumn. The musical began the tour in Rochester, New York in October 2018, with Joe Barbara as Sonny and Richard H. Blake as Lorenzo.Gans, Andrew. "National Tour of 'A Bronx Tale' Launches October 14" Playbill, 14, October 2018 Upon closing, Broadway Licensing acquired the rights for stock and amateur performance rights. ==Musical numbers== ; Act I * "Belmont Avenue" – Doo-Wop Guys, Calogero and Ensemble * "Look to Your Heart" – Lorenzo and Young Calogero * "Roll 'Em" – Sonny, Young Calogero and Ensemble * "I Like It" – Young Calogero and Ensemble * "Giving Back the Money" – Lorenzo, Young Calogero, Rosina and Sonny * "I Like It (Reprise)" – Calogero, Young Calogero, Sonny and Ensemble * "Ain't It The Truth" – Calogero, Handsome Nick, Crazy Mario and Sally Slick * "Out of Your Head" – Calogero, Jane, Denise, Frieda, and Ensemble * "Nicky Machiavelli" – Sonny, Rudy the Voice, Tony Ten-to-Two, Jojo the Whale, Frankie Coffeecake, Eddie Mush * "These Streets" – Lorenzo, Sonny, Rosina and Ensemble ; Act II * "Webster Avenue" – Jane, Calogero, Tyrone, Jesse, Denise and Frieda * "Out of Your Head (Reprise)" – Jane * "One of the Great Ones" – Sonny * "Ain't It The Truth (Reprise)" – Tyrone and Jesse * "Look to Your Heart (Reprise)" – Rosina * "One of the Great Ones (Reprise)" – Calogero * "Hurt Someone" – Tyrone, Calogero, Sally Slick, Handsome Nick, Crazy Mario, Jane, Jesse, Freida, Denise, Ensemble * "In a World Like This" – Calogero, Jane and Ensemble * "The Choices We Make" – Calogero, Lorenzo, Jane, Rosina, Company ==Casts== The principal original cast of the Broadway production. Character Paper Mill Playhouse Original Broadway Cast National Tour Calogero Jason Gotay Bobby Conte Thornton Joey Barreiro Sonny Nick Cordero Joe Barbara Young Calogero Joshua Colley Hudson Loverro Athan Sporek Frankie Leoni Shane Pry Lorenzo Richard H. Blake Rosina Lucia Giannetta Michelle Aravena Jane Coco Jones Ariana DeBose Brianna-Marie Bell Tyrone Isaiah Tyrelle Boyd Bradley Gibson Antonio Beverly == References == ==External links== *Internet Broadway database Category:2016 musicals Category:Musicals based on plays Category:Broadway musicals Category:Musicals set in New York City Category:The Bronx in fiction Category:Musicals by Alan Menken